It's time for another Conceptual Aside.
And this is a subject that's already come
up, that we've already talked about a bit.
But we just want to reinforce
the concept in your mind
because it's important to several
of the things that are coming next.
Let's talk again about syntax parsers.
Remember that the code you write isn't
directly run on the computer, but
there's that intermediate program
between your code and the computer that
translates your code into something
the computer can understand.
The JavaScript engine on your browser for
example does this.
And it has different aspects and elements
to it, one of them being a syntax parser,
which reads your code and
determines if it's valid, and
what it is you're trying to do.
So for example, if it sees in your code
as it's going character by character
an r by itself, it assumes that
you're probably going to write a return
statement, so it's expecting an e.
And it will go character by character, and
if it sees something unexpected,
it will throw an error.
But if it sees what it
anticipates as valid syntax,
character by character, then it keeps on
going, it knows what you intend to do.
And it may come across an ending or
terminating character like a semicolon.
So, imagine in your mind
that the JavaScript engine,
the syntax parser that's part of that
JavaScript engine, is going through your
code character by character,
making assumptions, stating certain rules,
and can even make changes to
your code before it's executed.
So, that's exactly what happens in certain
circumstances in JavaScript, and it's
important to think this way about how the
JavaScript engine is reading your code.
Character by character,
using a set of rules for
what's valid syntax and
deciding what it is that you intend.
And that's all happening before
your code is even executed, so
it can make changes if it wants to
the code that you've actually written.
All right, let's move on.